Description:

[Rectangle, Triangle, Ellipse] when any of these buttons are activated, the next left-click and movement in the work area starts drawing the corresponding figure. The upper left point of the figure is the point of mouse click, the lower right point is the current mouse coordinates (the ellipse and triangle are inscribed in the rectangle with these coordinates). When the left mouse button is released, drawing of the figure is finished, it is added to the work area. If the Esc button was pressed before releasing the left button, drawing is interrupted, and the figure is not added to the work area. Double-clicking changes the Rectangle figure type to Ellipse and vice versa. Corners are added to the triangle by double-clicking. When you hover over the figure, it is highlighted. Figures have minimum and maximum sizes, which are checked.

[Relation] when this button is activated, clicking on any figure and moving in the work area starts drawing a Relation (line) from the center of this figure to the current cursor coordinates. When moving to another figure in the work area, a connection is added between the first and second figures. When you release the mouse button, drawing the connection is interrupted. Drawing is also interrupted when you press Esc. Double-clicking changes the type of connection and draws the direction. The right mouse button in any mode draws a connection. When you hover the cursor over a connection, it is highlighted.

[Move] when this button is activated, hovering the left mouse button over any figure in the work area changes the cursor to a "hand". When you click and move the mouse pointer, the figure also moves. If the figure has connections to other figures, these connections also move. When you release the left mouse button, the figure's movement is completed. The movement is interrupted when you press Esc. In this mode, two anchor points also appear: green - for rotation and blue - for resizing. When you hover the cursor over the buttons, they are highlighted and the cursor type changes to a hand or arrows, respectively, and when you click on them, they start working.

[Delete] when this button is activated, clicking on any figure in the work area deletes it, along with all its links. When you hover over a figure or link, the elements that will be deleted start blinking. Double right-clicking deletes the figure in any mode.

The [File] menu and the [Save], [Load] submenu for saving and loading the layout to/from a file(s). The file format is json or bin, depending on the choice of define __EXPORT_FORMAT__ in Consts.h. After loading, it should be possible to continue drawing (adding, moving, deleting, etc.) figures.

The QWidget and QPainter classes were used to implement the functions.
